hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain discrete time exponential and sinusoidal signals
these signals are the basic building blocks for many other signals
a discrete time complex exponential signal is defined as given here
where capital c and alpha are in general complex numbers
alternatively it is expressed as given below
if c and alpha are real the signal is called real exponential signal
the real exponential discrete time signal can have one of the behaviors given in the figure depending on the value of alpha
in a complex exponential signal
if beta is purely imaginary we obtain the signal given in the red box
as in the continuous time case this signal is closely related with the sinusoidal signal
these signals are the examples of discrete time signals with infinite total energy and finite average power
some example discrete time sinusoidal signals are given in this figure
if c and alpha are complex numbers here they are represented in polar form
then we obtain the complex exponential in general form as given in the red box
we obtain one of the behavior given in the figure depending on the sign of alpha
even though there are similarities between continuous time and discrete time signals
there are also many important differences
this table shows the comparison of continuous time and discrete time complex exponentials
the first difference is that distinct values of omega zero results in distinct signals in the time domain
for instance higher values of omega zero result in higher rate of oscillations in the signal
however it is not the case in discrete time complex exponentials
in discrete time the signals are identical for values of omega zero separated by multiples of two pie
second continuous time exponentials are periodic for any choice of omega zero
however discrete time exponentials are periodic only if omega zero equals two pie times m over n for some integers m and n
third fundamental frequency of omega zero for continuous time exponentials
whereas it is omega zero divided by m for discrete time exponentials
the fundamental periods for these signals are given in the below row
in this video I have explained discrete time exponential and sinusoidal signals
let me know if you have any questions